The delete operation is used to delete a resource.
A rest API can define operations that manipulate resources where get, retrieves their resource posts,
creates a resource, put updates a resource and delete deletes a resource.
And in this lesson, we're going to create a delete operation.
In order to delete a contact, we expect the consumer to initiate a delete request so we can use the
delete mapping annotation to map this request to a handler method.
The path that the consumer specifies will contain an ID variable because we need the ID to know which
contact to delete.
And when we delete a contact, the only thing that we're going to send back is an HTTP status code.
We're not going to sit here.
We're not going to be sending back any data.
We'll call the handler method.
Delete contact.
In here.
We can pass the path variable string ID.
All right.
Now, inside the interface, we will force the implementation to override a delete contact method.
Void.
Delete, contact.
It's going to receive an ID.
Back inside of the implementation.
Let's override the method.
And here we'll say contact repository, dot, delete contact and will delete the contact at the index.
Now inside of my controller, when a user makes a delete request, we're going to delete whatever resource
matches the following ID Contact Service Dot.
Delete Contact ID.
And having another look at the HTTP 200 status codes.
Which one do you think we should send back?
I think to oh four.
No content is the appropriate status code to send back because we got the request.
It was successful, but there is nothing to really send back.
The resource was deleted.
So we will return.
A new response entity.
That encapsulates a status code of whoops.
HTTP status dot.
No content.
So that would be 204.
Can't.
Let's try it out.
I will run the application and debug mode once again.
And what I'm also going to do, actually, is add two breakpoints over here, one inside of save, one
inside of updates, and then I'll go back to Postman.
First thing I'll do is make a post request that creates the following resource Remove the ID field because
we want it at first to be auto generated.
Let's send the post request.
Oh, my dad.
Upon sending over a post request, Spring Boot does not expect an ID because we're just creating a brand
new contact.
Let's try this again.
All right.
It creates a new object of the contact class, auto generated auto generating an ID, and each field
from the JSON invokes a setter.
Ultimately, this saves a new contact inside of our ArrayList.
Let's just copy over the ID right now.
Copy value.
And there is our updated data store.
Okay.
Now I'm going to go back, make a request.
I want to update that same contact.
And give them a new phone number.
All right, we'll send that over.
Spring Boot creates a new contact object, auto generating the ID field.
But then the ID that we sent through the JSON is going to override the auto generated ID such that the
contact we intend to update retains its original ID.
And now here, instead of update contact, you can see that the contacts are a list already contains
a Jon Snow contact and now we're updating it to have a new phone number.
So we just updated the resource and now we're going to delete it using that same ID will go and will
make a delete request and to delete a contact, the only thing we have to specify is the ID of the resource
we want to delete.
We do not need any content to send over, so we'll say none.
We'll send up.
We have to complete this request first.
And the request to send back a status of 200.
The contact was the resource was updated.
Now we'll go ahead and delete that same resource and it's gone.
I should have had a break point for deleting, but trust me, the contact was inside the ArrayList and
now it's not.
We get back a status of 204 which confirms the success.
Okay, last thing I want to do before we wrap up is give the consumer the ability to retrieve a collection
of resources.
So what I'm going to do is specify one final handler method that expects to receive incoming requests
on slash contact.
Slash all.
In this handler method is going to return a response entity that encapsulates a list of contact resources.
We're going to call it get contacts.
And here what we'll do is just say a list.
Contact.
Contacts is equal to contact service dot.
We don't have it defined yet.
We'll just call it get contacts for now.
And then once we retrieve all of the contacts from our data store, we'll return a new response entity.
That holds the contact data as well as a status of OC.
Okay.
Let's go over to our interface.
And define a list.
Contact.
So a function that returns a list of contacts and this function will be called get contacts.
Inside the implementation.
We need to override the gut contact method.
And here we can say contact repository, dot, get contacts.
All right.
I think we're all done.
Let's test it out.
We'll make a gut request that gets every single contact.
Um.
No need to include a body.
Let's just send it over.
Yeah.
We get back nothing obviously, because we need to create a contact first.
As we reran the spring boot up, the state of the application was reset as well.
So let's just go ahead and make a post request.
We'll create a John Snow resource.
It was created.
Let's create a I don't know the how to resource.
Give them a random phone number, create that.
Let's create another resource in the name of Tyrion Lannister.
Create that.
And then if we say slash all and then if we make a get request to retrieve all of the contacts, it
should return the three contacts we just created.
No need to include a body.
We'll say none.
Press send.
Beautiful.
It returns a JSON that contains a collection of contact resources and the status of 200 reassures me
as the consumer that everything is working just fine.
All right, we're all done setting up the rest API, but we need to set up some exception handling.
You'll be doing all that by yourself in the next few workbooks, so I hope you're prepared.